when I was pregnant I just got very
frustrated don't eat deli need to do
this particular prenatal test well why
did you make that choice I just make a
different choice I felt like I was being
told to do things and I never got the
answer to why
sometimes in the world of modern
parenting you just can't seem to win if
you go back to work I spend less time
with my kid what if that means they
don't get the attention they need to
adequately develop if I stay home with
my kid and give on my income stream well
I look back when my kids are older and
regret my decision there's a lot of
conflicting advice out there about
whether to stay home or go back to work
so trying to make a choice between the
two can be confusing and emotional you
love your kids and want what's best for
them but how do you determine what best
means when everyone has a different
opinion there are many variations of
parents that a household can have and I
think more families should be asking the
question of whether it makes sense for
the male partner to stay home but the
truth is that in the current time most
of the discussions about stay-at-home
parents focus on women in particular and
it's usually the women who say they feel
that what they do during the day
is gonna determine at a deep level what
kind of mom and person they are it is a
huge weight to put on yourself as a
parent and when you're met with the
side-eye after telling someone you're
going back to work or not it can really
poke holes in your confidence I decided
to dig in and find out is it truly
better to stay at home or go back to
work
it's an emotional decision yes but as an
economist I've learned that we can use
data to help navigate through those
emotional decisions and feel confident
we're making the best decision for our
family specifically there are three main
factors you should consider before you
decide first you need to think about how
this decision will affect your family
budget let's do some numbers say your
total household income is $100,000 with
you and your partner making fifty
thousand each that means you bring home
about eighty-five thousand dollars after
taxes if both of you work and the family
pays fifty nine dollars a month for
childcare your total disposable income
would be sixty seven thousand dollars a
year are you with me so far now if you
decide to stay home your family makes
less but you don't pay for childcare
your disposable income goes down in the
scenario but not by as much as it would
if you didn't factor in the childcare it
becomes more complicated of childcare is
more expensive in your area a full-time
nanny can run forty fifty thousand
dollars a year depending on where you
live if that's the case in your
neighborhood in this scenario I outlined
it would completely wipe out one parents
income
and you'd be better off financially with
one parent staying home of course this
is only a short-term analysis
child care is less expensive sometimes
when kids are in school and you may make
a higher income later so you want to
factor that in if you can once you've
done the math you'll know what's
possible and what isn't and you'll be
able to make a more informed choice
which should feel empowering second it's
time to talk about what's best for your
child you may think this should be the
core of your decision but here's the
most important thing to know there is
actually no right answer according to
studies from Europe and the u.s. the
decision to go back to work or stay at
home won't actually make or break your
child's future success
research shows that two parents working
full-time as a similar effect on your
child's future test scores and income to
one parent working and one not what
seems to be most important is the
environment your child is in during
their spare time as long as they're
engaging and enriching activities
reading like to see their motor skills
interacting with other kids they're
gonna thrive whether or not you're at
home with them while they do it
there is a bit of nuance in the data for
example studies have found that if both
parents work kids from poorer families
are impacted positively and kids from
richer families are impacted less
positively so depending on your
household configuration the effects on
your child could be a little positive or
a little negative but the overall impact
is negligible now I want to call out an
exception paternity leave there is a
growing body of evidence suggesting that
babies do better when their mothers take
some maternity leave the early days with
your child can impact their development
so if you have pay leave you should take
it and if you don't maybe consider
taking some unpaid leave for those first
few months if your budget allows and
finally ask yourself what do I want
well this me seems simple it's the
factor that feels most taboo to explore
in targeted parents I find that when a
woman chooses to stay home she often
feels obligated to say she made this
choice for her children's optimal
development which sure can be part of
the reason but a perfectly acceptable
answer is this is the lifestyle I prefer
or this is what works for my family the
same goes for the working mother saying
I like my job and that's
I went back to work is enough if you
want to go back to work
that's great you're lucky to have a job
that you love and you have every right
to keep it once you become a parent be
honest with yourself about what you'd
really like to do if you're upfront
about that you're guaranteed to feel
happier which in turn will allow you to
be the best version of a parent you can
be and isn't that the whole point there
is no right and wrong when it comes to
parenting the best decision is the one
that will make you and your family the
happiest up to you to decide what's next
by acknowledging that the choice to stay
home or not is just that a choice with
factors pushing you in various
directions we can ditch the guilt and
enjoy doing what feels best for our
families
[Music]